# CalSat for Ground-based CMB experiments
A review has been conducted on the calculations performed by Luis Fernando Mejía Jirón in his Master’s Thesis. The thesis addresses the implementation and utility of a calibration source capable of emitting a fully polarized signal in the microwave range, onboard a Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellite. The purpose of this calibration satellite (CalSat) is to calibrate experiments that measure the polarization of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) from ground-based observatories.
The utility of CalSat has been studied by analyzing the number of times it enters the field of view of each experiment. Additionally, a thermal analysis has been conducted to ensure that the generated
signal does not cause detector saturation due to the satellite’s temperature, which is not the case in any scenario. Following the same procedures as Mej´ıa Jir´on, similar results have been obtained, with differences arising from the approximations used and the location of some experiments.

GitHub containing the used codes and plots made for the project "CalSat for Ground-based CMB experiments" during my intership at IFCA.

The main goal of this internship has been to colaborate in the development and characterization of a calibration source boarded in a LEO orbit satellite, in order to calibrate terrestrial experiments of the polarization of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB).

The orbit of the calibration satellite (CalSat) can be found at folder 'Orbits' with different durations. In folder 'Code' can be found all the Python scripts used. Running the file 'main.py' will generate all the plot that can be found on folder 'Pyhton Plots' and counts how many times CalSat orbits above (or in the filed of view of) each of the studied experiemnts (QUIJOTE, CLASS, ACT and LSPE-STRIP). You can also find a plot of how the inclination angle changes against altitude for a Sun Synchronus Orbit ('SSO.pdf') and how the elevation angle changes against altitude at the South Pole, where the South Pole Telescope (SPT) is. 

To simulate the orbit of the satellite the software GMAT (General Mission Analysis Tool) has been used, running the file 'CalSat.script'. I could not upload the different generated files with a different starting time due to its weight, however, you have instructions on how to recreate those simulations (just change the starting time in 'CalSat.script') in 'CalSat for Ground-based CMB experiments.pdf'.
